[ Elevator bell dings]
[ Footsteps echoing ]
[Heart beating]
[ Breathing heavily]
[ Monitors beeping ]
Holder: Alexi Giffords...
nee Alexi Michaelski.
When he's 5,
his pop gets whacked
by mob soldier Stan Larsen.
Alexi gets dumped
into foster care,
grows up hating on Stan Larsen,
biding his time,
and then he moves in
three blocks from him.
And meets Rosie, changes plans.
Why kill dad when you can kill
what's most precious to him?
Taunting him,
drop off his dead kid's
bloody backpack.
Poetic justice.
[ Doorknob rattles]
[Knock on door]
- Hope I ain't interrupting.
- I got the large black.
Holder has the creamer,
seven sugars.
What are you two doing
in there?
Thanks, Duncan.
Keep the change.
[ Laughs] Keep that up.
They're gonna say you broke up
with Sonoma 'cause of me.
Yo, wouldn't be the first time.
You know what I'm sayin'?
Maybe Alexi's mom
knows where he's holed up.
Let's have a chat.
He could be halfway
to Alaska by now.
It's 1:00 am.
[Cellphone ringing]
[Cellphone beeps] Hey, Jack.
You okay?
You don't sound so good.
Well, uh,
check the green suitcase.
It's where I packed all the cold
and flu stuff in there.
Echinacea and myrrh, son.
That's the ticket.
Straight-up
anti-oxidels.
Okay. Well,
I'll pick you up some Tylenol.
[ Paper rustles]
Soon.
I'm still at work.
Are you sure you're okay?
All right.
Try to get some sleep.
I'll be there as soon as I can.
Bye.
Just go, Linden.
Take care of the little man.
I got it.
No, let's go.
I'll get Tylenol
on the way there.
[ Door opens ]
Ain't exactly the highlight
of my life
giving up my kid, okay?
So, the last time you saw him
was when you dropped him off
at that church.
Gave him up when he was 4.
I mean, he's never gonna
forget his new foster dad.
He's touching him at night.
You are a cruel man.
Well, I'm not the one
who left my son behind!
Holder?
l have a son, too.
And I worry, too, about the ways
I've let him down.
The times I wasn't there
for him.
I know what it feels like to...
To think you've failed
your child.
But he came back to you,
didn't he?
That's when you gave him
that photo of him and his father
when he was little.
So he'd know he was loved.
I know he's here, Monica.
He's a good boy.
[Cellphone beeps] He's got nothing to do
with what happened to that Larsen girl.
Holder: This is Detective Holder.
Badge number 4592.
Request backup
to 2212 Carlyle Street.
[Cellphone closes]
It's better if I take him in
than if they find him.
[Stairs creaking ]
[Thud]
Okay.
Mitch:
Hey. You've reached Mitch.
Please leave a message
after the beep.
Thanks.
[ Beep ]
Hey.
It's me.
I'm just calling
to see how you're doing.
I hope okay.
W—we're okay.
Well...
[Chuckling ]
most of the time.
The boys...
[Sighs]
Well, they miss you, babe.
[Bottle thuds]
I miss you.
Um...
[Sighs]
[Voice breaking ]
The things I've done.
They just won't let me go,
you know, and I'm...
[Telephone beeps]
[Sighing]
[ Exhales deeply]
[ "Flood And Fire " plays in background]
I day after day I
J” you know it ain't right I
J” slow as a glass,
you're slipping away J”
J” you're flood and fire J”
[ Sighs]
I You're flood and fire I
[ Indistinct conversations]
[ Remote clicks] Man:
This autumn canvas...
Man #2: 'Cause I've got
this show in October, so...
[ Gunshot]
[Dramatic music plays ]
[ Remote clicks, music stops]
[ Elevator bell dings]
Excuse me.
Sorry.
Hey.
Man: 4, please.
[ Door opens, closes]
Rise and shine, princess.
What, you want room service?
Eggs over easy?
Buttered toast?
[Slams table]
Get up!
[ Exhales slowly]
- I want a soda.
- You don't get a soda.
You don't get shit.
Hell, you don't get to sit
on that chair.
Get up.
[ Chair scrapes ]
[Sighs]
[Chair clatters]
[ Door slams ]
You and me...
we're gonna have
a little convo
about your girlfriend, Rosie.
[ Police radio chatter]
Seems like you didn't watch
the tattoo one too many times,
the way you be drawing Rosie...
Half a dozen unis, photo team,
overtime and a half.
He better be our doer, Linden.
[ Paper rustles]
It's preliminary lab work...
Back on Alexi's place...
Rosie's prints turned up.
And I've got his prints
on her backpack
and the super 8 camera.
Don't worry, son.
The lab also have turned up
traces of ammonium hydroxide
on the straps of the bag.
It's the same chemical that was
found under Rosie's fingernails.
[ Paper rustles]
You got eight hours with him.
Why?
He hasn't asked for a lawyer.
We can hold him for 24.
This department's
under the microscope.
No small part of that
your doing.
We do everything by the book.
You got eight...
Then charge him or let him go.
[ Footsteps depart]
[ Door opens, closes]
[Cellphone chimes]
[Cellphone closes]
[Sighs]
Tina: I told you.
[ Indistinct conversation
in distance]
Man: This is unbelievable.
Where's the money?
What did you do with it, then?
I don't have any money.
How am I supposed to pay
for this, then, huh?
Fine.
[Gasps ] Are you serious?
Uh-huh.
God! Jerk!
[Chuckles]
[ Birds chirping]
[ Polish accent]
How could she leave the boys?
I don't understand.
- Tommy and Denny cannot
stay here no more. - Helen.
The boys are doing just fine.
They're staying exactly
where they are.
- Look at this place.
- I'm working on it.
- It's been crazy.
- You're doing a lot for us, Terry.
And it's appreciated.
[ Polish accent] We're just
concerned about you, Stan.
You need support and help.
I know what's best for my boys.
Being in their own home
is what they need right now.
- Why did she leave you?
- Ma...
No, you let him talk.
I want to know.
I got to take care of something
down at the station.
Is everything okay?
Something I should have done
a while ago.
[Sighs]
Always good seeing you, tad.
Oh, that's it, Stan.
Go on, walk out.
[Sighs]
Hi,
um... I need a Coke,
big scrambler with pancakes,
and a number 11.
You got enough to cover that?
See that sign?
It says I have the right
to refuse service to anyone.
[Scoffs] What did I do?
I mean, what the hell?
I got it.
l-l'll pay for her.
Yeah.
She's gonna pay for me.
You can come sit if you want.
Okay.
[Sighs]
So, what? There some guy
waiting in your room?
I mean, it's cool, whatever,
but I got to eat first.
Oh... oh.
[Chuckling] No.
No, it's nothing like that.
No.
Your husband in the room, huh?
I'm not married.
Did he...
beat you or what?
[ lnhales sharply]
[Sighs] No.
He's a good man.
[Chuckles]
Listen, I...
I saw you earlier
down by the pool.
You were with your boyfriend...
That a-hole?
[ Scoffs ]
Okay, look.
FYI... that's not my boyfriend.
Okay? He's just, like, some guy
who had beer or whatever.
Hey, do you want to buy
a postcard from here?
They only cost 50 cents,
and they make great gifts.
Kids love them.
Here. Do you have kids?
What are you, like 17, 18?
Yeah.
[ Scoffs ]
[ Breathes deeply]
[Sniffs]
Child protective services.
Larkspur, Burien...
King County Juvenile Detention.
You get around, Alexi.
[ Scoffs ]
The worst food's at County.
Those bologna sandwiches.
The forever cheese.
[ Breathes deeply]
Case number 78-203.
It's funny how it never
leaves you like a nickname.
So now Slim Shady's gone,
what are you?
Good cop?
I'm not gonna lie to you,
Alexi.
You know the drill, but...
If you care, | get it.
Okay?
What he did to your dad...
Stan Larsen...
He had it coming.
He took away the one person
who could protect you.
Left you with
that emotional cripple...
Your mother.
She gave you up, Alexi.
And the second time,
it wasn't that hard for her.
There's no way
she had your back. Ever.
My mom, too.
CPS must have come
five or six times.
I'd try to cover it up.
Knew the foster house
was gonna be worse,
and it was, right?
Kids aren't fools.
We know.
I must have run away
half a dozen times,
but in the end, she gave me up.
That's what they do.
It wasn't fair.
Rosie had everything.
She had a family who loved her.
A dad who loved her,
and she loved him, too.
[ Laughs]
No, she didn't.
Rosie hated her parents.
What do you mean?
Whatever.
I'm done talkin'... Barbie.
Did you tell her what Stan did
to your father?
No.
Then why'd she hate her family?
You gonna charge me?
If you think you have
something on me,
then charge me,
because otherwise...
Another two hours,
and I walk.
Give me a cigarette.
Please.
Kid's lying.
Rosie had secrets.
Sterling said as much.
Bank account, Beau Soleil,
burner phone she used
the night she died.
All of this six months
before she was killed.
Something changed in that time.
Maybe Alexi told her
about Stan's past.
Made her turn on him.
Mitch wasn't a part of it.
Why did Rosie hate her, too?
It doesn't add up.
Where's his phone?
Processing,
along with his other stuff.
Why?
If she called him
or texted him,
we could do a reverse look-up
on the burner phone.
They rode bikes
in the park together.
She had to call him
at least once.
Want to get a warrant?
No. Ray can do a download
without it.
Won't be able to use it
in court.
If we get a confession,
we won't need to.
Come on, Linden.
Carlson's looking for any reason
to sink the case.
Why's Carlson gonna find out?
Just keep your mouth shut.
We'll be fine.
[ Door opens ]
[ Police radio chatter]
- Mr. Larsen.
- I got to talk to you.
Uh, come with me to my office.
You asked me before
about my past,
if it had anything
to do with... with...
what happened to Rosie.
I want to give you some names.
Some people who have ideas
about me...
about things I did.
May... may I...
we're taking care of this,
Mr. Larsen.
You need to leave.
That's Michaelski's boy.
We've got this.
It's better if you go now.
Please.
Mr. Larsen. Please.
Linden.
[ Breathes deeply]
Mind if I smoke?
Uh... no, no.
I don't mind.
[Lighter clicks]
You visiting someone?
Those things will kill ya.
Kind of a family tradition.
My brother's here for chemo.
I know... I should probably quit
one day, right?
I'm sure your brother...
appreciates you being here.
Well, tell that to him.
It's nothing to be here.
To show up.
We're all here.
The whole family.
That's what you do, right?
You show up.
Do you, um...
want me to get you someone?
I, uh...
can do that.
No.
Ray:
I got into Alexi's voicemail.
Rosie called him twice
on October 5th.
Second time,
she left a message.
1:14 am,
check it out.
[Click]
[ Machinery humming ]
What's that?
I don't know.
Maybe some kind of generator.
Can you play it again?
Yeah.
[Click]
[ Thud]
That sounds
like a sliding door.
It could be from
inside the casino. Hotel?
- Mm-hmm.
- I'll look into it.
Here it comes.
Rosie: Oh, my God, Alexi,
where are you?
[ Panting ]
I'm not even supposed to
be here. I saw him again.
Lex, lam in so much trouble
if anybody finds out I'm here.
Please... please call me
the second you get this.
I can't talk anymore.
God, please, Lex, help me!
Please... please call me
the second you get this.
[Click]
Sarah: Rosie was scared
and alone.
And she turned to you.
She trusted you.
You didn't put her
in that lake, Alexi.
"I saw him again."
Who was she talking about?
[Click]
I'm not even supposed to
be here, Lex, I saw him again.
[Click]
Rosie called you earlier
that night.
Same call, same time,
every Friday night,
from her to you.
You know what I think?
I think you didn't want her
to walk alone
to the ferry at nights.
She went to the casino
every Friday night,
and you drove her to the ferry,
didn't you?
You wanted to hate her,
but you couldn't?
We know Rosie
was in your apartment.
Her prints were there.
Then you left
her there alone...
scared, trapped,
you piece of shit.
- You let her die!
- No, I called her back!
What happened?
She...
She didn't pick up.
So, what? You took off?
Figured it wasn't your problem?
No. I waited at the dock
all night,
and she never came back.
Why'd you drop
her backpack off?
I didn't, okay?!
It wasn't me who did that!
Who was she scared of, Alexi?
Who'd she mean by "him"?
"I saw him again."
I don't know.
She must have told you.
Think.
[Sighing]
We were waiting in the drop-off
lane at the ferry that night.
She was laughing.
She got down in the seat
like she didn't want to be seen,
but it wasn't like
she was scared or nothing.
What made her duck down?
Come on, Alexi.
It had to be something.
We will protect you.
Whoever it was.
She was alone and scared,
and she called you.
She trusted that
you would be there for her.
Be there now.
[ Door opens ]
Let's go, Linden.
Time's up.
No! Not yet!
Come on. His lawyer's here.
His mom put in a call.
You didn't call the police
when you got her message
because they let you down
so many times
when your father was killed.
You had nobody.
All Rosie has is you.
Don't let her down.
Who was she scared of, Alexi?
Tell me.
Moss: Lieutenant,
I'd like to talk to my client.
Now.
If you'll excuse us.
[Sighs]
[ Door closes]
[ Horn honks]
[ Indistinct conversations]
[ Engine turns over]
Janek's place.
Great.
They're gonna be holding him up
here for a while.
Deprogramming him.
Thanks for stopping by, mom.
What is it, papa?
Y-you living here
with Stan...
Don't you see
it don't look right?
That's why we're worried,
me and your ma.
I'm helping him with the boys.
So what happened to that guy,
the big shot you were seeing?
Hmm?
You still waiting for him
to come around?
I don't want to talk about him.
He's not coming.
Like the other guy.
| wish things were different
for you, sweetheart.
Iwish...
l-l wish
you weren't alone.
I'm not alone, papa.
Helen:
[Speaks Polish ]
[ Door closes]
[ "Gloria" plays]
I was it something that they said? I
[ Laughs] I all the
voices in your head I
I they're calling Glori—a-a-a I
[ Laughing ]
I Gloria I
That was wonderful!
That was excellent!
Well, yeah.
I have never even taken a voice
lesson, if you can believe it.
[ Both laugh]
So, how old is your kid?
Your age.
So you skipped out on her
and the hubsters?
That's cold.
She left.
My daughter left.
So, what, you're, like,
on some mission to find her
or something lame like that?
Look, I'm not a rat.
So if that's what
you're expecting,
I mean, I'm not gonna help you.
Why did you leave?
Waitress:
You ladies want anything else?
Um... no.
I'm gonna puke
if I eat anything else.
[Chuckles]
No, just the check.
[ Paper rustles]
Hey.
I'm staying at the motel, too,
and I'm... I'm just above
the pool, and I'm in room 214.
And I'm probably gonna be
back here for dinner.
[Chuckling] I guess.
My boyfriend's probably back
by now, so...
I'll see ya.
Okay.
Hi.
Hey.
[Chuckles]
You look great, Eve.
Thanks.
Sit down.
I don't have much time.
It's the usual...
two sweet'n lows.
I wasn't sure you'd come.
What, are you kidding?
After so many years
of radio silence?
Why would I miss this?
How's Kurt?
You really want to know?
No.
Then let's not do that.
DA's office suits you.
I love it.
It's a lot more satisfying
than politics.
I actually really make
a difference.
I'm sure you do.
Are you still married
to your job, Jamie?
Let's talk about you.
Your work.
DA's office still taking heat
for dropping charges
against Darren?
What do you want, Jamie?
You don't have a fever anymore?
Good. That's great.
Uh, I'll be home soon.
Just as soon as I can.
Okay.
[Cellphone closes]
[ Rattling]
[ Lid closes]
[ Plastic rustles]
You want a smoke?
Mnh-mnh.
You sure you don't want
a cigarette?
Holder.
It's just a matter of time
before you're back in the fold.
You know, Linden,
you should live a little.
Smoking isn't how
I define living.
All right.
Just don't go all
"falling down" on me
'cause you can't get your fix.
So, how's little man?
He's better.
He's probably just
trying to dodge school.
He has an algebra quiz
tomorrow.
You should tell him to call me.
Since I aced algebra last time.
All right. [Sighs]
What are you doing?
Hmm? I'm gonna call
the station.
Have the unis send over a car.
You go check up on Jack.
I got this.
I'll make sure Alexi
doesn't leave town.
Don't worry about me.
I never do.
[Chuckles]
Thank you.
[ Car door closes]
[ Door locks]
Jack.
[Gasps]
What are you doing here?
He had 103 fever
when I got here.
Where were you?
You have to go.
You got nothing here,
not even a thermometer.
What the hell is going on,
Sarah?
Maybe you didn't know
where to look
because you don't live here!
I do.
| live here with my son.
You call this living?
Look.
I don't want to fight with you,
but Jack's been calling me.
He's scared, confused...
You had a lawyer call me
and threaten me!
All I want
is to be a part
of his life, okay?
It's time.
[Dialing]
What are you doing?
This is Detective Sarah Linden.
I need a unit
at 392 McCarl Avenue.
Jesus, Sarah...
I told you if you ever came near
my son I'd have you arrested.
I'm going.
Okay? I'm leaving.
Cancel it.
No. C-cancel it.
You care more
about that dead girl
than you do about your own son.
[ Door opens, closes]
Alexi: Don't turn around.
Just drive.
[ Engine turns over]
Hey, you will not believe
what I found out.
You, uh... you want...
you want me to get the nurse?
[Sobbing] No.
I don't want a nurse.
[Sobs]
Not like this.
[Sobbing ]
You want the bed up or down?
[Curtain scrapes]
I knew this guy, worked at
the Boeing plant for 35 years.
One of those guys.
Decorated vet.
I don't want to hear it, Jamie.
I'm talking
about my grandfather.
Ted.
I was in the third grade
when the accident
at the plant happened.
I watched him lose everything.
His wife, house...
his job.
He was dying.
Right there in front of me...
until he started to fight back.
He fought like
the son of a bitch he was.
And he got it all back, Darren.
Used to always say,
bad luck either destroys you...
or it makes you the man
you really are.
I'm not the man
your grandpa Ted was.
How about this?
The man you're conceding
the race to...
He's the same prick
who put you in that chair.
Adams framed you.
I can't prove it yet,
but I got a friend
at the DA's office.
There's a tollbooth photo
of you
the night Rosie Larsen
was murdered.
Put you right
where they needed you.
It was a fake.
So...
Still want to throw in
the towel?
I'm gonna destroy him.
[ Papers rustle]
[Thud, glass shatters]
[Thud]
Who's there?!
[ Locks turns ]
[Knock on door]
Holder: Linden.
[ Lock turns]
Holder, what are you doing?
Got Alexi in the car.
He wants to talk.
Okay.
Drake: The good news is
the teacher's gonna make it.
Attempted murder charge
has been dropped.
Now, you're still looking
at kidnapping
and aggravated assault,
Mr. Larsen.
And, uh, I'm not
gonna be able to plead this.
We're gonna have to go to trial.
I thought you said
there'd be...
Compassion?
I'm sure hoping for it.
Due to your, um...
Your Circumstances.
These charges...
They're serious.
Probably looking at a year
before this thing goes to trial.
[Sighs]
What about my boys?
My business? | just can't...
I figure you're looking
at three to five years.
I'm sorry. I wish I had
better news for you.
[Sighs]
Alexi: I was gonna
kill Stan Larsen.
I followed him everywhere.
Learned his routine,
watched him day and night.
And then you met Rosie?
[Sighs]
Who was she afraid of
at that ferry?
I-I think it was
another car.
Like in the next lane.
Drop-off lane.
Well, what kind of make?
What color?
[Sighs]
It's black. Town car.
I'm not sure
it was a Cadillac...
Some kind of...
some kind of luxury make.
A rich guy.
Who was inside of it?
I couldn't see.
The windows were tinted.
[ Scoffs ]
[ Door opens ]
[ Door Closes]
You did good, Alexi.
[ "You Wish You Were Red" plays]
I wish you were red I
I you don't know
you're falling in love I
I money's divine I
I darling I
I revolution won't stand I
I you're a Judas
that's hiding in red I
[ Door closes]
I money's divine I
I and please don't say I
I those words that,
oh, stop trying I
I but, baby, don't cry I
I oh, my darling I
I you're a dying red star I
I Darling I
I you wish you were red I
[Cellphone ringing]
I You don't know
you're falling in love I
I money's divine I
I Darling I
I revolution won't stand I
[Ringing stops]
I You're a Judas
that's hiding in red I
I money's divine I
I and please don't say I
I those words that,
oh, stop trying I
I but, baby, don't cry I
I oh, my darling I
I you're a dying red star I
[Cellphone ringing]
[ Exhales sharply]
We used to talk on the phone
for hours.
Rosie and me.
Then all of a sudden,
she had to go.
I never knew a girl
that had so many secrets.
Really?
She wouldn't even tell me what
she was doing at the casino.
Or how she found out
about her dad.
Found out what?
What, uh,
he did to your father?
No, I told you...
She didn't know about that.
It's just you and me, Alexi.
You can tell me.
What did Rosie find out?
Hi.
It's okay.
What did Rosie find out?
Alexi, what did she find out?
The truth.
Stan Larsen wasn't
her real father.